1. Asynchronous nature - shared resources may be modified in a confusing manner, and we must account for the fact that some processes we rely on may not have finished execution yet. Loose typing - makes data handling more risky, as type conversions may occur without us realizing. Web platform - the internet, latency, lost packets, connection issues, all introduce more variables and complicate design.
2. The developers of JavaScript made it loosely typed in order to ensure that we minimize Runtime errors. For a website, it is better if the browser simply kept running, rather than crashing whenever a Type error occurred. The developers of JavaScript added asynchronous features as the web features many different processes working simultaneously, with POST & FETCH requests constantly being sent between client & server. Asynchronicity enables work while waiting on I/O or other processes.
3. A compiled language converts all of its code to machine code prior to running, while interpreted languages reads code line-by-line, converts, then executes. JavaScript is interpreted. This makes it more portable - we don't have to have many compilations depending on OS, and faster development as we don't have to fully recompile anytime we change something. However this leads to a slower runtime, and less security (all code is readable).
4. We focus on vanilla JS in order to understand fundamental concepts that frameworks make more efficient. The drawback is that modern web development uses frameworks, so now we don't know essential web technology.
5. This lab can be used for any dynamic parts of our project, HTML is a semantic markup language and CSS is a styling language, JavaScript is what allows us to actually perform logic and run programs with our code.